---
layout: post
order: 5
published: true
title: Games
category: culture
---
Ahhhh, Friendly Competition... allowing us to recharge our batteries and blow off some steam since 1999. Over the years, having a little friendly competition in the office has played an important role in our binding as a team here at Dynamo. Whether it be foosball, shuffleboard or various other activities through our FunTime USA outings (axe throwing, go karting, etc), we believe in the power of games in helping to build a beautiful place to work.

<!-- more -->

Whyyyyy?

## Foosball
We have many foos addicts here, as well as the occasional player, so all are welcome to play. It's the stereotypical agency game, but there's rhyme to that reason we believe - it's played best in a group of four, it allows for some good old fashioned steam-blowing and it's soemthing that you can constantly improve upon. The being said, over the years, we have developed an absurd glossary and a solid set of rules:

Rules

- We invite players to be respectful of their colleagues' need for solid, concentrated blocks to get things done (usually means Foos happens from Noon-ish til 1pm and/ro after 5pm;
- Last score cannot be scored by midfielders;
- More than one-clock spin is severely reprimanded;
- We encourage fair play but do not shy away from friendly trash talk;
- No matter how high emotions flare, everything can be resolved with a post-game beer.

For further insight into the folklore of foos, including a much-needed glossary, check out this handy website: [DynaFoos 101](https://redbeardswon.wordpress.com/dynafoos-101/)


## Shuffleboard

As far as games go, Shuffleboard is the new kid in town and we're slowly but surely falling in love with this form of table top Canadiana. The rules are still debatable but we essentially follow the following set of guidelines:

- 2 players at a time;
- Each player throws a stone, closest to the edge decides if they want to throw first or let their opponent throw first;
- From that point on, whoever scores the round shoots first the next round;
- Your goal is to knock your opponent's stones off the table and/or set your stones up beyond your opponent's stones;
- The player with the closest stone to the edge is the only to score points;
- Said points are the sum of all points gaernered by all stones ahead of the opponent's furthest stone;
- A stone hanging off the end-edge (not the side-edge) counts for 4 points at the end of a round;
- Each game takes as many rounds as needed until one player gets to 15 points.
