---
layout: post
order: 6
published: true
title: DynaDays
category: culture
---
A ‘dynaday’ is a quarterly event that allows us to take a break from our regular work and gives employees free reign to focus on whatever they want for one full day – so long as it adds value, in one way or another, to Dynamo. 

<!-- more -->

There’s no limit to the amount of creativity or scope of the projects, and there’s only one rule: everyone must ‘ship’ their projects no later than 4 PM for a group demo. 

Below is a shortlist of frequently asked questions:

## Why do this?

The goal of Dynaday is to serve as a release valve from the stresses of client projects and agency life. We’re an enthusiastic bunch, and many have expressed interest in pursuing Dynamo-related initiatives, but mentioned time as a blocker. Dynaday is a great little reset to be able to push new ideas forward or experiment with new coding languages. demo. 

## What can really be done in 8 hours?

Of course, you might not fully complete your project in 8 hours, but Dynaday is a good chance to start something that’s been on your mind and develop a plan to finish it. Getting started is the hardest part, right? 

## Can I work in a team?

Either, actually! If you need collaborators, there will be a spreadsheet where you can enlist help from someone for your project. On the inverse, if you don’t know what to work on, have a look at the spreadsheet and reach out to your colleagues to see how you can get involved. 

## Can I work on my own?

Of course! It’s possible that you have a really cool idea that you need a designer/developer/rocket scientist to complete, and are getting worried that you haven’t found someone to help you with – but fret not: your demo can be a business plan, sketch, slam poetry – whatever! The point is to get creative, not deploy a completed project!

## How do I ask people for help?

Part of what makes Dynaday fun is the chance to collaborate with people you might not often get the opportunity to work with. If there’s someone you want to work with, don’t hesitate to reach out to them directly. In advance of Dynaday, a spreadsheet will be sent out so 

## You mentioned that my project has to ‘add value to Dynamo.’ What does that mean?

Ideally, we’d like you to be working on Dynamo-related initiatives, but we’ve left it broad. Have a cool idea for an app that seems unrelated to the agency? It could be the next DINR! We’re flexible and open (as per usual).

To ensure that Dynaday goes smoothly, please consult these tips and tricks:

**Be punctual**

To ensure Dynaday runs smoothly, please be prepared to arrive at the office by around 9:15 AM. This will ensure we can start promptly at 9:30 AM with a delicious kick-off breakfast. 

**Prepare in advance**

It’s likely that you won’t need to do an enormous amount of legwork to prepare for Dynaday, but a little preparation goes a long way. Please ensure that you know what your project is, that you’ve installed any relevant software or gathered appropriate materials to hit the ground running by the time you come in for Dynaday. 

**Respect time limits**

Presenters will be restricted to a 5-minute lightning demo, and the time limits will be enforced to ensure things run smoothly and everyone has a chance to present their work.
