---
layout: post
order: 4
published: true
title: Design
category: our-departments
---
The design team at Dynamo is responsible for creating beautiful and functional solutions. This means doing the ‘little’ things, like choosing fonts, but also ‘big-picture’ stuff, like figuring out how to create design that’s scalable and how it will grow with our clients and their teams. Most of all, it involves pushing ourselves outside of our comfort zones, encouraging each other (and key stakeholders at various organizations) to try new things and ensuring that the best possible solution is delivered on-time and budget. 

<!-- more --> 

Here’s what we do:

**Naming**

From time to time, clients approach us to help name their companies. Being part of the design team at Dynamo means having to wear a variety of creative hats,  and using real human language and 672 pieces of scratch paper to come up with names for companies and products will be one of them. We strive to create names that people will remember, talk about and help build an emotional connection to brands. 

**Branding & Identity**

We help clients translate their long-term vision, goals and ambitions into identity systems. We use a digital-first approach to establish how your company’s brand should look, feel and function. This means we create everything from logos, iconography and photographic styles to stationery, presentation decks and books, all while ensuring everything works together, both in your hands and on various digital platforms. 

**Art Direction**

Art direction brings clarity and definition to the technical execution and design of a product. We help our clients convey specific messages by combining art and design to communicate the exact message of their companies. Art direction is about evoking the right emotion, and creating a connection to what you’re seeing and experiencing. We achieve this by creating an overarching vision for the brand and/or digital product and providing high-level, hands-on guidance across various touch-points of the brand. 

**Digital Product Design**

We use a five-phase methodology to create and build stunning digital experiences – from branded ecommerce, websites and mobile apps. Our design process encompasses an iterative approach to wireframes, visual and user interface design, as well as scalable design systems. 

**Conclusion**

The definition of ‘design’ is open-ended at Dynamo, and our design team loves that our practice includes a broad variety of skills, tools and and expertise. We are opinionated, value emotional response over data and strive to make intuitive products that people love to use.
