---
layout: post
order: 2
published: true
title: Cloud66
category: devops
---
Cloud66 is a self-described devops-as-a-service provider, which Dynamo uses to build and maintain immutable infrastructure, primarily for its production e-commerce deployments.

<!-- more -->

In practical terms, they provide an easy-to use GUI toolset for building, orchestrating, and maintaining sets of servers to which applications may be deployed. These sets of servers are called stacks.

Cloud66 is provider-agnostic: it can build servers provisioned to many different cloud-service providers. In practice, the majority of our stacks are deployed to Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), though we also maintain stacks on Linode and on DigitalOcean. Cloud66 is also able to deploy to different accounts of the same provider. This can be handy if a client has a number of free AWS credits: we can deploy the client’s stacks to her own account.

Servers provisioned to Cloud66 stacks can be designated for various services. The most common are: web-servers running nginx in front of a Rack-compliant server like Unicorn or Passenger; and database servers running PostgreSQL or MySQL. Cloud66 provides turnkey recipes for numerous other services (e.g. Redis, RabbitMQ, Elasticsearch, etc.). The breadth of add-on services is not as wide as Heroku’s, but is a good fit for most e-commerce deployments.

Additionally, Cloud66 supports Docker-based orchestrations, so the sky is the limit.

Cloud66 is a powerful tool, but requires some more considered thinking about throughput and compute requirements, and is generally not as cost-effective as Heroku. Cloud66-based deployments should be considered only for particularly demanding production environments, and their design should be carefully thought through.
