---
layout: post
title: Vision
published: true
category: what-we-believe
order: 1
---

If a company’s Mission is trying to answer "Why are we here?", then a company’s Vision aims to answer “What are we aiming for?”. To answer this, we broke down Vision into two major components: Core Ideology and Envisioned Future.

<!-- more -->

The former being a blend of Core Values and Mission which, since we had these locked up already, came to light swiftly for us during many internal meetings, brainstorming and thought bubble explosions. The latter was, and is, harder to synthesize.

Since 2000, we at Dynamo have believed in, and acted upon, our Mission and as such, our Vision has largely been organically created as we adhere to this Mission in our daily lives. That is, if we continue to build a place that everyone loves to come to every day to solve challenging problems, then I think we're fulfilling a beautiful Vision without having to formally state something like "We want to be bigger than Sid Lee, richer than Stan Lee, and more Ninja-y than Bruce Lee." We initially didn’t think it was necessary for our company to develop a Vision.

However, like most things at Dynamo, we had many beautiful minds working on this so we kept coming back to the table time and again to try and get this down. There was *something* there, and some important points were raised:

* ...I don't think we should omit a specific vision statement simply because it keeps changing, rather we should be changing and updating our vision as we evolve... our mission is to be ever evolving then it makes sense that our vision would be changing as Dynamo changes...

* ...I think one of Dynamo's great [recent] challenges... has been embracing the notion of being a medium-sized business. We've made great strides there, but I think we still romanticise the small-business era… For most of [its life], Dynamo was fewer than 10 people, essentially in one office. Developing a vision organically in that context is reasonable. With 30+ people, spread across the world? It strikes me as [ill-conceived] as a medium-sized business.

* To be clear, a vision is not a strategic plan. The vision articulates where we are going; the plan tells us how we're actually going to get there. We start that planning work only after we've agreed on the vision. Creating a plan without a vision… Well, I just can't quite figure how one does it. Imagine asking Google Maps to give you directions but not plugging in your desired destination.

So, back at the table we are, getting closer and closer to nailing that beautiful affirmation of our future substance.  The last missing piece to bring this all together is an agreed upon "Envisioned Future". Therefore, until we have that the missing link, I’ll leave you with a trelling quote from the one and only Seth Godin:

> It's easy to write something like this… but it's incredibly difficult to live one, because it requires difficult choices and the willingness to own the outcome of your actions. If you're going to permit loopholes, wiggle room and deniability, don't even bother.

Well, we’ll bother, and as such, we’re taking the time to do so. Stay tuned.
